<chapter id="contact-the-kde-team">
<chapterinfo>
<date>2002-01-18</date>
<releaseinfo>3.00.00</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Contact the &kde; team</title>
<anchor id="contact"/>

<sect1 id="contact-mailinglists">
<title>Mailing lists</title>

<para> &kde; has several mailing lists up. See below for the current
list. Older articles can be found in the <ulink
url="http://lists.kde.org">mailing list archive</ulink>.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-request@kde.org</email> - &kde;</term>
<listitem><para>For general discussion</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-announce-request@kde.org</email> - kde-announce</term>
<listitem><para>Announcements of new &kde; applications</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-request@kde.org</email> - kde</term>
<listitem><para>Users help each other</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-devel-request@kde.org</email> - kde-devel</term>
<listitem><para>For developers.


</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-licensing-request@kde.org</email> - kde-licensing</term>
<listitem><para>Discussion of licensing issues</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-look-request@kde.org</email> - kde-look</term>
<listitem><para>Discussing "look'n'feel issues"</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-artists-request@kde.org</email> - kde-artists</term>
<listitem><para>Creating icons and other artwork</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-doc-english-request@kde.org</email> - kde-doc-english</term>
<listitem><para>For people interested in writing documentation for &kde;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-i18n-doc-request@kde.org</email> - kde-18n-doc</term>
<listitem><para>Internationalization and documentation issues</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://i18n.kde.org/teams/">http://i18n.kde.org/teams/"</ulink></term>

<listitem><para>For localized information, which may include user
email lists and websites, check the translation teams page at the
above &URL;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

<para>To subscribe: Click on one of the above links and type
<userinput>subscribe
<replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput> in the
subject of the message. Please write your real email address instead
of the plain
"<userinput><replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput>"
words. Leave the body of the message empty. Do not include a signature
or other text which might confuse the mail server that processes
your request.</para>

<para>To unsubscribe: Click on one of the above links and type
<userinput>unsubscribe
<replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput> in the
subject of the message. Please replace
"<userinput><replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput>"
with the email address you used for the subscription. Leave the
body of the message empty. Do not include a signature or other text
which might confuse the mail server that processes your
request.</para>

<note><para>The addresses listed above are for <emphasis>subscribing
and unsubscribing only</emphasis>.  Once you have subscribed to a
mailing list, you will received a message telling you how to send
messages to the mailing list, and how to alter your mailing list
options.</para> <para>Please do not send messages intended to be
posted to the mailing list to the above addresses.</para></note>

<tip><para>Please do not use <acronym>HTML</acronym> to send your
request because it makes it difficult for our mail server to process
your request. If the subscription address is identical to the address
you are posting from, you may omit the address in the subject
line.</para></tip>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-developers">
<title>Contacting the &kde; developers</title>

<para>Contact addresses for developers can be found in the documentation of
their individual applications.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-official">
<title>Official Contacts</title>

<para>Please visit our <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/representatives.html">Official Representatives</ulink>
page if you need to contact &kde; in an official way. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-more-information">
<title>More information</title>

<para>Please find more information about &kde; at &kde-http;.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>
<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-parent-document:index.docbook
End:
-->

