.TH MODULES-UPDATE 8 "Pardus Linux" "2001"
.SH NAME
modules\-update \- (re)generate /etc/modules.conf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B modules\-update
[force]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B modules\-update
is a simple tool to manage
.IR /etc/modules.conf .
The Linux module utilities use a single file for all their 
configuration.  This makes it difficult for packages to dynamically add
information about their own modules.
.PP
.B modules-update
makes the dynamic addition of information easier by generating the 
single configuration file from the many files located in
.IR /etc/modules.d/ .
All files in that directory are assembled together to form
.IR /etc/modules.conf .
.PP
After generation, a backup of the old file can be found at 
.IR /etc/modules.conf.old .
.SH "FILES"
There are two types of file you can put in
.IR /etc/modules.d/ :
normal files and exectuable files.  Normal files contain standard modules
configuration information, as described in
.BR modules.conf (5).
Executable files are executed and their output is used as extra configuration
information.  Error messages are sent to stderr and thus do not become 
part of the configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I force
.B modules\-update
will check if the current
.I /etc/modules.conf
is a generated file by checking for a special tag on the first line.  If this
tag is not found generation is aborted.  By supplying
.I force
as parameter only a warning is printed.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.uludag.org.tr/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR depmod (1),
.BR modules.conf (5)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system.  Modified for
.I Pardus Linux.
