#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language turkish
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Computer Literate
\layout Standard
\pagebreak_bottom 

\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

Computer literate needs knowing a little about computer technologies
\series medium 
; 
\series default 
can use personal computer for some classic works
\series medium 
, 
\series default 
can select which application or hardware is suitable for his/her work
\series medium 
.
 
\series default 
He/she needs only find suitable application for his/her work, he/she needn't
 know about background processes of system.
\layout Section

Computer Literate Skills
\layout Standard

We assume that people who defined as computer literates know information
 and have skills below.

\series medium 
 
\series default 
Computer literate may not do all the things below without any mistake in
 some situations;
\series medium 
 
\series default 
in some situations some problems that beyond users power appears
\series medium 
 
\series default 
and
\series medium 
 
\series default 
user may not do basic processes
\series medium 
.
 
\series default 
Still assuming the user has skills below in ideal environment
\series medium 
.
\layout Subsection

Basic Skills
\layout Itemize

Can power on/off monitor, configure it for best view.
\layout Itemize

Can check power cable is connected and power supply is working.
\layout Itemize

Can use mouse.
\layout Itemize

Can configure and use printer.
\layout Itemize

Can configure and use web browser.
\layout Itemize

Can mount/demount hardwares.
\layout Itemize

Can select which application is necessary for his/her work.
\layout Itemize

Can select and buy hardware.
\layout Itemize

Can use different kind of storage devices like Floppy, CD, DVD, USB Disk,
 USB Stick etc.
\layout Itemize

Can use burn CD/DVD.
\layout Itemize

Can use technologies that uses computer technology, make connection between
 them (mobile phone, pda, digital camera etc.)
\layout Subsection

Desktop Skills
\layout Itemize

Knows install/update/uninstall software.
\layout Itemize

Knows what is desktop environment, what he/she can do with it, how to customize.
 (wallpaper, clock configuration, sound configuration, resolution and colors,
 themes, icons etc.
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

can defined as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

appearance
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 generally
\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

Can manage files.
 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

Can create file/directory.
\layout Itemize

Can use desktops copy/paste/cut features.
\layout Itemize

Can delete file/directory.
\end_deeper 
\layout Itemize

Can transport, save and backup datas.
\layout Itemize

Knows how to exit a application.
\layout Itemize

Knows archiving, compressing and opening.
\layout Itemize

Knows existing of help files, can use them when gets problem with softwares.
\layout Itemize

Knows disk formatting.
\layout Itemize

Can use file sharing on network.
\layout Itemize

Can use multimedia technologies (audio, video, graphics, radio/TV etc.).
\layout Section

Personal information management and office applications skills
\layout Itemize

Can use office applications like word processing, presentation, spreadsheet
 etc.
\layout Itemize

Can use personal information manager applications like organizer, address
 book etc.
\layout Section

Internet skills
\layout Itemize

Knows how to connect internet.
\layout Itemize

Can use web browser, surf in the internet, use search engines.
\layout Itemize

Can use e-mail.
\layout Itemize

Uses internet to make life easier (banks, e-commerce etc.), not only for
 get information and have fun.
\layout Itemize

Can install plugins if required by programs.
\layout Itemize

Can download files from internet.
\layout Itemize

Can connect and use another computer.
\layout Itemize

Can use file sharing programs.
\layout Itemize

Can create and edit personal web site with visual tools.
\the_end