#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Uludag
\newline 
Incubation Distribution Selection
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Goal
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 is the distribution whose packages, patches and knowledge base will be
 used, by
\series bold 
 Uludag Project
\series default 
, in the process of building 
\series bold 
'Uludag Approved Source
\series default 
'.
 Software to be developed by
\series bold 
 Uludag
\series default 
 will be tested on the temporary platform and the reference system which
 will be based on the Incubation Distribution.
\layout Standard

This document is aimed to analyse the requirements of the
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 and the need for selection of such a distribution.
\layout Section

Reasoning
\layout Standard

Source cleaning, application integration and building a reference system
 are intensive and time consuming tasks.
 The goal of identifying an
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 is to save time and resources, by diverting the required resources for
 source cleaning and developing a reference system from scratch to other
 goals of
\series bold 
 Uludag 
\series default 
Project.
 This approach will help to make faster progress at early stages.
\layout Standard

Using an
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 as a source cleaning base does not mean to be 'X distro based'.
 Incubation Distribution will be the base for preparing (cleaning) the software
 to be added to
\series bold 
 Pardus GNU
\series default 
/Linux, until the distribution infrastructure, which we call innovative/inductiv
e technologies, is built.
 Soon, a new
\series bold 
 Pardus GNU
\series default 
/Linux base will form evolving from the work done on the Incubation Distribution.
\layout Section

Criteria
\layout Standard

In the ideal situation
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 would comply with the all criteria listed below.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution should be a GPLed free software project.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's development process should be open to public, in
 accordance with the free software philosophy.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution should, as much as possible, comply with the file
 system hierarchy standards.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution should have extensive documentation and knowledge
 base.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution should have good community support [mailing lists,
 forums, irc etc.]
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's minimum working system should be up to date and
 stable.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution should have a wide selection of packages.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's package selection should be suitable for desktop
 user.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution should be easy to customize for the specific purpose.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's package selection should be up to date.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's packaging and patching policy should be accessible.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's package management tool should be easy to use.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's package management system should be simple and it
 should be possible to take package manager of the system with ease.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's package sources and patches should be easily accessible
 and controllable.
\layout Itemize

Selected distribution's package dependencies and relations should be clearly
 accessible and controllable.
\layout Itemize

Package format of the selected distribution should enable repackaging of
 installed software with the help of various tools.
\layout Itemize

There should be available tools for converting selected distribution's package
 format to new formats used by other distributions.
\layout Section

Result
\layout Standard

In the light of above criteria, it is concluded that for
\series bold 
 Pardus
\series default 
 GNU/
\series bold 
Linux
\series default 
 incubation period most suitable alternatives are GPLed populardistributions
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Fedora, Mandrake, Suse, Debian and Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 When these alternatives compared to each other results are as follows;
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Fedora, Mandrake, Debian and Suse
\emph default 
 are relatively complex to be an
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 Because of their package management and configuration tools and each ones
 special patches, workload required for transition from
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 to
\series bold 
 Pardus GNU/Linux
\series default 
 base is more than necessary.
\layout Standard

Complex structure of
\emph on 
 Debian
\emph default 
 packages would create difficulties for developers during source cleaning
 process.
 Relative
\emph on 
 Debian
\emph default 
 experience is required to be able to see the inner workings of
\emph on 
 Debian
\emph default 
 packages.
 On the other hand,
\emph on 
 Fedora, Mandrake and Suse's
\emph default 
 package structure has limited abilities and is inadequate.
 Excluding the package manager from such a system and working with and modifying
 source packages is hard and has problems.
\layout Standard

Although all distributions have same development tools,
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\emph default 
 provides most suitable development environment and better opportunities
 for customisation in respect to working directly with the sources.
 Because all other distributions, a part from
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\emph default 
, have their own package format and packages are distributed in binary form.
 In contrast,
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\emph default 
 natively works with source code.
\layout Standard

Except
\emph on 
 Debian and Gentoo
\emph default 
, all other distribution's package repositories are inadequate in respect
 to richness of package base.
 Package updates are user's responsibility and not controlled by the distributio
n.
 Users are, almost, made have to wait for the next release in order to use
 the latest packages.
 Also there are compatibility problems between the distros using same package
 manager and there are different versions of the same package for
\emph on 
 Fedora, Mandrake and Suse.
\layout Standard

All the other distros, except
\emph on 
 Gentoo, Redhat
\emph default 
 and
\emph on 
 Debian
\emph default 
, were based on each other in the past and systematically repeated the same
 mistakes.
 In order to overcome the integration and software problems every distro,
 except
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\emph default 
, found their own way and in time these ways drifted away from each other
 and became distro specific.
\layout Standard

Apart from these distributions,
\emph on 
 Slackware
\emph default 
 is not selected as
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution.

\emph default 
 Because
\emph on 
 Slackware
\emph default 
 doesn't have an advanced package manager and a wide selection of packages.
 It doesn't provide an adequate compiling environment, solve the dependencies
 and customise packages.
\layout Standard

LFS (Linux From Scratch), instead of using a distribution, approach was
 not chosen on consideration that time and resources that would be spent
 on package integration, customisation and dependency solving would not
 return to the project as value added.
\layout Standard

According to these criteria Gentoo, which is originally an LFS project and
 more like a meta distribution, was chosen because of the reasons outlined
 below, as the
\emph on 
 Incubation Distribution
\emph default 
 for
\series bold 
 Pardus GNU/Linux
\series default 
 to evolve upon.
\layout Itemize

Choosing a meta distribution as incubation distribution will make it possible
 to integrate the Innovative/inductive Technologies with the distribution.

\emph on 
 Gentoo
\emph default 
 has the simplicity to be called a meta distribution and is not a distribution
 in real sense.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 infrastructure, which makes it easy to access and update the source code,
 will speed up the compiling and testing in the on going process of building
 
\series bold 
'Uludag Approved Source
\series default 
' in
\series bold 
 HD.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 is a GPLed free software project and its development process is open to
 public in accordance with free software philosophy.
 Work groups structured under the management committee have the organisational
 abilities to work in harmony with developers and contributors.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 tries to comply with many standards, starting with file system hierarchy
 standards and takes these standards into account for included software
 too.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 has extensive and adequate documentation and knowledge base.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 has a large community with mailing lists, IRC channels and forum.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 has the most up to date packages comparing to other distributions.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 has a wide selection of packages and the package base is rapidly expanding
 day by day.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 packages include every multimedia/development/window manager/accessory
 software for the desktop user.
\layout Itemize

With
\emph on 
 USE
\emph default 
 flags,
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 provides an environment where it is possible to change the functions/specificat
ions of every package.
 With this feature it is the most customisable distribution.
 In source cleaning process it enables, because of
\emph on 
 USE
\emph default 
 flags, developers to easily customise the packages according to
\series bold 
 Pardus's
\series default 
 needs.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 packaging and patching policy is very clear.
 If a package is compiled with errors or has integration problems, procedure
 for the developer to follow is same as
\emph on 
 Mandrake
\emph default 
 and
\emph on 
 Debian
\emph default 
 procedure.
 This way it becomes possible to integrate
\emph on 
 Mandrake
\emph default 
 and
\emph on 
 Debian
\emph default 
 patches by using only
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 patches.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 package manager is mature and easy to use.
 Even tough
\emph on 
 Portage
\emph default 
 is mature enough for stable use it is continuously developed by Gentoo
 Developers by adding new features.

\emph on 
 ebuild's
\emph default 
, which are the scripts used by
\emph on 
 Portage
\emph default 
 to build packages, are written in a language close to human language and
 relatively informative at the first look.
 ebuild's provide an easy-to-customise structure and has simple four page
 specification.
 Therefore it is a good choice for Package Cleaning process.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 can hold different versions of the package repository, called
\emph on 
 Portage
\emph default 
, on the system.
 So that,
\series bold 
 Pardus GNU
\series default 
/Linux packages can mature on a
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 system which holds
\series bold 
 Pardus
\series default 
 GNU/Linux versions of the packages too.
\layout Itemize

With the help of
\emph on 
 SLOT
\emph default 
 variable,
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 can host different versions of the same package and its dependencies without
 interrupting each other.
 For example a developer can install four different versions of the GNU
 C Compiler and their dependencies and test if a cleaned package complies
 with all of them.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 separates the build-time dependencies from run-time dependencies.
\layout Itemize

Source codes of
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 packages and their patches are easily accessible and controllable.

\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 keeps the packages in their original form and patches are stored under
 files/ folder of the designated directory for each package.
 If a patch is bigger than
\emph on 
 20Kb
\emph default 
 in size it is kept on the own mirrors.
 It is clearly specified in
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 package scripts that which patches and in which order to be applied.
 Because of the tools, which allow partial processing of packages scripts,
 developers have full control over the source code and package scripts.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 can compile packages in
\emph on 
 sandbox
\emph default 
 and also install them in
\emph on 
 sandbox
\emph default 
 Thanks to this feature, developers can execute compile & install processes
 without affecting the system they work on.
\layout Itemize

Dependencies and relations of
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 packages are clearly accessible and controllable.
 With the help of
\emph on 
 USE
\emph default 
 flags one can keep track of package dependencies, changes in the dependencies
 and conflicting packages.
\layout Itemize


\series bold 
\emph on 
Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 package format enables re-packaging of any software installed.

\emph on 
 QuickPkg
\emph default 
 tool can re-package every software installed on the system.
\layout Itemize

There are tools to convert
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 packages into other package formats.
 Such tools like
\emph on 
 RPM
\emph default 
 and
\emph on 
 dpkg
\emph default 
 can run on
\series bold 
\emph on 
 Gentoo
\series default 
\emph default 
 and allow compatible conversions.
\the_end
