#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\tolerance 10000
\usepackage{hyperref}
\end_preamble
\language turkish
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme pslatex
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Why Lyx?
\layout Author

Gürer Özen <gurer@uludag.org.tr>
\layout Standard

We prepare documents with lyx in Uludað project.
 Reasons that let us to make this decision can summarize with points below.
\layout Enumerate

Lyx (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.lyx.org}

\end_inset 

) files are plain text files, so, we can easily keep them in svn/cvs repositorie
s.
 In big files, there is no problem about two people to edit documents' different
 parts at same time.
\layout Enumerate

Lyx files in fact a similar and easy to parse copy of TeX/LaTeX files.
 To convert files without installing Lyx, there is a perl script at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www-hep.colorado.edu/~fperez/lyxport/}

\end_inset 

 address.
\layout Enumerate

It uses existing document formats, so, format problems can't make slower
 the production.
\layout Enumerate

Users didn't need to fight with Lyx or LaTeX, Lyx files can be converted
 to lot of format with high quality.
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

LaTeX provides higher print quality than other softwares.
\layout Itemize

We can convert it to HTML and publish it on web.
\layout Itemize

We can convert it to PDF and publish as one file.
\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate

Lyx is easy to learn, no need to know LaTeX.
\layout Enumerate

Lyx has ports to OS/2, Windows and OS X excluding Unix.
\layout Enumerate

We have been started to write with Lyx while OpenOffice.org is starting.
\the_end
