#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language turkish
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Uludag
\layout Title

Project Main Contract
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Subsection

Vision
\layout Standard

Uludag is GNU/Linux distribution developed by UEKAE according to computer
 literates basic desktop needs; uses existing distributions' dominant parts
 as concept, architecture or code; provides easy use, configuration, installatio
n with configuration environment and tools that can be converted to an autonomou
s system.
\layout Subsection

Supporter
\layout Standard

TÜBÝTAK/UEKAE
\layout Subsection

Project Leader
\layout Standard


\noun on 
Erkan Tekman
\noun default 
, Project Manager
\layout Subsection

Suppositions
\layout Itemize

Project will be GPL'd free software project.
 
\layout Itemize

Project will be public, compatible with free software philosophy, use contributo
rs' work.
\layout Itemize

Project can transfer other Linux distributions' architecture and components,
 will use open source (distribution independent) projects directly.
\layout Itemize

Localization works for free softwares will be used directly.
\layout Section

Project Definition
\layout Subsection

Target
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{amac}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Creating a useful, stable, developable operating system with merging classical
 distribution concept named as HD and distribution infrastructure that named
 as Impulsive Technologies (DT).
\layout Subsection

Limits
\layout Itemize

Updates and all development on packages will be performed on existing distributi
ons' work.
\layout Itemize

Central infrastructure that installer system, package management system
 and configuration managers use commonly will be prepared.
\layout Itemize

Before connective layer will be ready; installer, package manager and configurat
ion tools will be developed without that layer or will be chosen from existing
 free softwares.
\layout Itemize

Distribution will be prepared for Turkish users first.
\layout Subsection

Resources
\layout Itemize

Free softwares
\layout Itemize

Existing Linux distributions
\layout Itemize

Open standart committees
\layout Itemize

Other projects that produces Impulsive Technologies
\the_end
