<article lang="&language;" id="mac">
  <title>mac</title>

  <para>The mac ioslave lets you read an HFS+ partition from
  &konqueror; or any other &kde; file dialog. It uses 
  <ulink
  url="http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;q=hfsplus+utils">
  hfsplus tools</ulink>,
  so you will need these installed for it to work.</para>

  <para>Enter <command>mac:/</command>
  into &konqueror; and you should see the contents of your &MacOS;
  partition. If you have not used kio-mac before, you will
  probably get an error message saying you have not specified the
  right partition. Enter something like
  <command>mac:/?dev=/dev/hda2</command>
  to specify the partition (if you don't know which partition &MacOS;
  is on, you can probably guess by changing hda2 to hda3 and so on
  or use the print command from 
  <command>mac-fdisk</command>). This partition will be used the next
  time, so you do not have to specify it each time.</para>

  <para><command>Hfsplus tools</command> let you see the file and copy
  data from the HFS+ partition, but not to copy data to it or change
  the filenames.</para>

  <para>HFS+ actually keeps two files for every one you see (called
  forks), a resource fork and a data fork. The default copy mode
  when you are copying files across to your native drive is raw data,
  which means it only copies the data fork. Text files are copied
  in text mode (same as raw format but changes the line endings to
  be &UNIX; friendly and gets rid of some extra characters - strongly
  advised for text files), unless you specify otherwise. You can
  also copy the files across in Mac Binary II format or specify
  text or raw format with another query: 
  <command>mac:/myfile?mode=b</command> or
  <command>mac:/myfile?mode=t</command>. See <command>man
  hpcopy</command> for more.</para>

  <para>Note that you need permissions to read your HFS+ partition.
  How you get this depends on your distribution, do a 
  <command>ls -l /dev/hdaX</command> on it to see. Under Debian you
  have to be in the 'disk' group (just add your username to the end of
  the entry in /etc/group).</para>

  <para>For some reason some directories in &MacOS; end in a funny
  tall 'f' character. This seems to confuse hfstools.</para>

  <para>Author: Jonathan Riddell <email>jr@jriddell.org</email></para>
</article>

